High in the hills of
the occupied West Bank.
A flag
flies in the face of a
Palestinian village.
God is king, it says to young settlers.
Guard this illegal outpost.
Construction hasn't even begun.
But we are not welcome.
So they are asking us to leave.
They don't want to talk to us.
They said they've been here
for about nine months.
Dotted across the landscape,
more signs of the fight
to assert
Israeli control over Palestinian land.
The Arabic names on signs
post crudely erased.
Under international law,
the beating Douglas
settlement is illegal.
But last February,
the Israeli government
officially recognized it,
along with eight others, a move the U.S.
strongly opposed.
Come on.
We're here
because God promised us this land,
as real, Bekaa tells us.
Now, these
settlers have set
their sights on a new prize,
one that seemed utterly impossible
before October seven.
Returning to Gaza, they cheer.
That is the goal of Zionist
settler organization Nahla.
One of more than a dozen groups
now advocating
for the reestablishment
of Israeli settlements in Gaza.
A recent promotional video
even boasts
that Gaza will become the next Riviera.
Don't sit on it.
Not live here.
Daniella Weiss is the godmother
of the movement
and she's already started recruiting
from the 700,000 strong
settler community of Israel.
We're just arriving now at a settlement
in the occupied West Bank,
and we're heading to a talk
that Daniella
Weiss is giving to a group of people
who are potentially interested
in resettling Gaza.
And I know that it is.
We are for the land
of Israel and Ben-Gvir, she says.
About 20 people gather in the living room
of a family. Farm on Miriam.
Way snows that
for many in this community,
there is deep nostalgia for Gush Katif.
A block of 21 Israeli settlements
that were forcibly evacuated
by the IDF in 2005
when Israel left the Gaza Strip.
Then this is the vision of Gaza,
she says.
You see all the nucleus groups in Sheba.
A map has already been drawn up,
with six
groups laying claim
to different parts of the enclaves.
So they've just been handing out
these little booklets
that say people of Israel return home.
And then underneath.
A call to return
to the settlements of Gaza, to Florida.
One of the organizers tells the group
they have a representative
flying to Florida to raise money.
Nicola gets support
from a number of groups in the U.S.,
including AFC
Americans for a Safe Israel,
which cosponsored a recent webinar
on the return to Gush Katif.
Even as the Biden administration
has cracked down on settlements
in the West Bank, there is.
A very strong support
from very prominent from very, yeah,
I would say wealthy people.
Wealthy Jews in the US.
In the US.
Can you name any names?
No, I cannot. No.
Back at her
home in Cardamom settlement,
Weiss tells us she's already enrolled.
500 families.
I even
have on my on my cell phone
names of people who say to enlist
me, enroll me. I want to join.
I want to join the groups
that are going to settle Gaza.
I have to ask you, though,
because we're sitting here talking
and we're listening. I'm listening.
I hope you are listening to it.
Is a reminder,
I think, of
the people who live here,
but also the people who live in Gaza.
What happens to them
in this vision
of this new settlement with
Jewish settlers, even in Gaza City?
What I think about Gaza,
the Arabs of Gaza lost the right
to be in Gaza on the 7th of October.
Yes, I do hear the mosque.
I do hear the the the that the the prayer
things where different
until the 7th of October.
No Arabic
speaking about more than 2 million Arabs.
They will not stay there.
We Jews will be in Gaza.
That sounds like ethnic cleansing.
The Arabs want to annihilate the state
of Israel.
So you can call them monsters.
You can you can call their
call them cleansing of Jews.
We are not doing to them.
They are doing to us.
I couldn't
make it clearer when I said that myself
as a person
who is preoccupied
with settling the land
until the 7th of October.
I didn't have plans of returning to Gaza.
It's clear
I'm not interested in cleansing.
What is clear is that Weiss
has views traditionally
seen as extreme in Israel
have become more popular
since October 7th.
In late January, jubilant crowds
packed an auditorium
in Jerusalem for the victory
of Israel conference,
calling for the resettlement of Gaza.
A poll that month from the Jewish People
Policy Institute
found that
26% of Israeli eyes
advocate the reconstruction
of the Gush Katif settlements
after the war is over.
Among supporters of Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu's right
wing coalition
government, that number jumps to 51%.
Several ministers were present
at the conference,
including far right
Heritage minister and the High Eliyahu
in a rare interview with Western media.
He tells us
his political decisions
are guided by the Torah.
But is there.
Anything about Gush Katif in here?
Yes. Yes.
The because the Muslim.
And the settlements
in Gaza
are needed to prevent
another October seven.
A look at the language of the land
says that
wherever there is a Jewish settlements,
there will be more security.
Doesn't mean
there will be absolute security,
but there will be more security.
Why would you advocate for
something that many would say is illegal,
is immoral,
is not supported
by the majority of Israelis,
and is also very harmful to Israel
in terms of its international standing?
Lamont enclosed incredulously.
Why do you think it's immoral
to take land
from someone who wants to kill me?
Why is it immoral to take my land
which my ancestors live there,
which I've even given up
to someone
who slaughters, rapes and murders me?
What is more and more than that?
Netanyahu has
called resettling Gaza, quote,
an unrealistic goal.
And most Israelis.
But that hasn't stopped scores
and IDF soldiers
fighting there from posting videos
calling for a return to Gush Katif
perspective.
For many supporters
of the settler movement,
what was once
a distant fantasy is now a fervent dream.
Clarissa Ward, CNN,
the occupied West Bank.